== General ==
=== How do I send an IM? &amp;bull; How do I add someone to my buddy list? ===

To simply send a message to someone who is not in your buddy list, just type <code>/msg
buddyname hello there</code>. However, if you would like to engage in a conversation
with someone, you should first add them to your buddy list and create a ''window''
for them. Just type <code>/addbuddy buddyname</code> or <code>/addbuddy "buddy
name"</code> to add
them to your list. If they are online, a window will be created automatically
for them. If they are not online, you can type <code>/open buddyname</code> to open a
window for them manually.

Once a window has been opened for a buddy, you can use the Tab, Home, and End
keys to cycle through your list of windows to find them, or type <code>/jump
buddyname</code> to go directly to their window. Once you are in their window,
anything you type that doesn't start with a "/" will be sent to them as a message. If the
buddy is not online when you type your message, the message will be saved and
sent the next time your buddy signs on.

== Navigation ==

=== How do I get the buddy list or status window to come back? ===

The window list window and the status window both default to ''autohide'' mode: Whenever
either one of them changes, they will appear on the screen for $autohide seconds, then
disappear again. However, if you would like to make the window list window stay visible
permanently, you can use F4 or Ctrl-F to cycle between autohide, always hidden, and always
visible modes. There is also a <code>/winlist</code> command which will allow you to
specify a setting to use in your .naimrc file.

=== Are there any short cuts to help make talking to multiple people easier? ===

naim separates each conversation into a different window, which you can cycle
through using Tab, Home, End, and the /jump command. Your windows will be listed
in the window list window in the upper-right corner of your screen, which is
usually hidden when you're talking to someone. However, if you are in buddyA's
window, and buddyC sends you a message, the window list window will unhide
itself, buddyC's name will appear in yellow, and the []'s around his name will
turn into ()'s. This means buddyC's window has changed since the last time you
have seen it. In order to make chatting with multiple buddies easier, the /jump
command will take you to the next "yellow" buddy if no name is provided.
Therefore, if you send a message to buddyA and are waiting for a response, and
buddyC sends you an IM in the meantime, you can just type <code>/jump</code> to take you
directly to buddyC's window. If buddyA sends you a message while you are then
talking to buddyC, typing <code>/jump</code> again will take you back to buddyA's window.

The keys F8 and Ctrl-N do the same thing as typing <code>/jump</code> with no arguments, to
make chatting even easier.


=== How can I jump to the beginning of the line when running naim in screen? ===

Under normal convention, Ctrl-A jumps to the beginning of the input line and
Ctrl-E jumps to the end. GNU Screen uses the Ctrl-A key for detaching, switching
windows, etc.  To jump to the beginning of the line when running naim under
screen, simply press Ctrl-A a (that is, hold Ctrl, press 'a', let go of Ctrl,
and press 'a' a second time).


=== When using <code>/bind</code>, what keys are A1, A3, B2, C1, and C3? ===

According to the ncurses header file, these keys correspond to the Home, End,
PgUp, and PgDn keys on the numeric keypad, as such:
 /* The keypad is arranged like this: */
 /* a1    up    a3   */
 /* left   b2  right  */
 /* c1   down   c3   */

I have never used a computer keyboard which used these bindings instead of
KEY_PGUP, etc., but I included them in naim's <code>/bind</code> "just in case."


=== Is there a way to go backwards in my buddy list? ===

Home, Alt-Tab, and Shift-Tab will cycle backwards through your window list.

However, on my system at least, Shift-Tab generates the same control sequence as
Tab by itself. Typing:
 loadkeys -d
 keycode 15 = Tab Tab
 alt keycode 15 = Meta_Tab
 shift keycode 15 = F26
 string F26 ="\033[Z"
into the command prompt on my machine before running naim allows Shift-Tab to
work like Home. This affects other curses programs (including Lynx) as well, so
you may consider adding that to your system boot scripts.

== Configuration ==

=== How can I configure naim? ===

Many aspects of naim's operation are configurable through the use of variables,
such as $autohide (which controls how long the status window and window list
window will appear on the screen when one changes). To change these variables,
use the <code>/set</code> command. For example, to make both windows wait around for 10
seconds, instead of the default 3, just type <code>/set autohide 10</code>.

For most other configurable pieces, there are specific /-commands to use, which
will be described in <code>/help commands</code>. For example, to add me to to your buddy
list, just type <code>/addbuddy nmlorg</code> or <code>/addbuddy "n ml org"</code>.


=== Is there a way to have naim save my configuration settings for the next time I start
naim? &amp;bull; Where can I get an example .naimrc (naim configuration file)? ===

naim will read start-up commands from a file called .naimrc in your home directory, so all
of your configuration commands can be placed there.

naim includes a /save command, which will attempt to create a suitable .naimrc file based
on your current settings. So, once you have configured naim to your liking, just type
<code>/save</code> and naim will use the same settings the next time it starts up
(including your buddy list, channels you have joined on IRC, etc.). The generated .naimrc
is also auto-documented, so feel free to use <code>/save</code> to create a "default"
.naimrc, and customize it by hand using a text editor.

You can <code>/set autosave 1</code> to have naim automatically write .naimrc whenever you
<code>/quit</code>.

=== How do I configure naim to be nice with GNU Screen? ===

Solution under [[#Console Display Issues|Console Display Issues]] applies.

=== Is it possible to disable the timestamps every 30 minutes? ===

Type <code>/set tprint 0</code>.


=== Is there a way to disable sounds in naim? ===

The only sounds naim should make are for $beeponim or $beeponsignon, so you can just
<code>/set beeponim 0</code>, etc. to shut them off.


=== How do I change the colors? ===

The /setcol command will let you manipulate the colors. Type <code>/setcol</code> by itself
to see what the current values are, then <code>/setcol buddy blue</code>, etc.  to change
them.


=== Does naim support inverse/blinking text, or changing the background for specific buddy
types separately from the whole buddy list? ===

At present, no. If enough people request that ability, I will add it to the next
release.


=== Why do some people I talk to have colored text? ===

naim's default behavior is to honor <font color="..."> tags sent by other users,
which can unfortunately lead to situations in which the other user has chosen a
font color that clashes with your background. You can either use the <code>/setcol</code>
command to change your own background, ask them to pick a less offensive
foreground, or <code>/set color 0</code> in naim to disable <font> tag processing.



== Profiles ==

=== How can I get someone's profile? ===

naim includes a <code>/whois</code> (/wi, /info) command to retrieve all information AIM
keeps on AIM users, including the profile. Unfortunately, AOL users' profiles
are not visible to AIM users through any mechanism.


=== How can I set my own profile? ===

If you have a file called .naimprofile in your home directory when naim starts, 
naim will use its contents instead of the built-in default. You can send SIGHUP 
(killall -HUP naim) from the command line or type <code>/readprofile .naimprofile</code> 
while naim is running to reload your .naimprofile.


=== Is there a way to view a user's away message other than sending them a message? ===

Unfortunately, the TOC protocol does not appear to have such a capability. naim
uses a workaround (it puts your away message in your profile when you go <code>/away</code>),
so naim can view other naim users' away messages, but I am unfamiliar with any
mechanism to retrieve a WinAIM, etc. user's message (other than sending them an
IM and hoping they send back an autoresponse).


=== How does Gaim get the away message when you do the GetInfo? &amp;bull; Why does naim
use TOC instead of Oscar? Isn't Oscar newer? ===

Many other AIM clients use an alternative protocol, Oscar, which does have this
capability. The original AIM protocol was Oscar, and AOL later created TOC to
serve the needs of their Java client. In 1998 AOL released a public document
specifying details of the TOC protocol, for use by third-party clients such as
naim. Since then, they have made many significant changes to the Oscar protocol
to discourage third-party client maintainers from using Oscar. It is possible
for third-party clients to use the Oscar protocol, but I would prefer to spend
my time working on new features to spending it in keeping up with AOL's latest
protocol revisions, rush-testing new releases, and publicizing the problem and
availability of corrected versions.



== Buddy List ==

=== How do I remove someone from my buddy list? <code>/delbuddy</code> isn't working. ===

The <code>/addbuddy</code> and <code>/delbuddy</code> commands are used to manipulate your
buddy list, not your window list. naim includes a feature called ''autoquery'' which makes
naim open windows for buddies who are online when you sign on, and for buddies that sign
on after you; this is why <code>/addbuddy</code>ing someone causes a window to open for
them. To disable this feature, type <code>/set autoquery 0</code>.

If you <code>/close</code> a window for a buddy, naim will keep them on your buddy list;
if they sign on again, naim will open a window for them. However, immediately after you
<code>/close</code> a window, you can type <code>/delbuddy</code> to remove that
individual from your buddy list.

=== Every time I start up naim, your name (naim help) is always added to my buddy list!
How can I stop that? ===

naim will read start-up commands from a file called .naimrc in your home
directory. If this file doesn't exist, a built-in default is used instead, and
one of the things it does is add my screen name to your buddy list. If you don't
like this behavior, you can <code>/delbuddy naimhelp</code>, then <code>/save</code> to
write-out a
.naimrc which will not contain me in your buddy list. If you have used /save in
the past without first removing me, your .naimrc will include an addbuddy
naimhelp, which you will need to remove manually (or <code>/delbuddy</code> me and type
<code>/save</code> again).


=== One of my contacts '''always''' shows up offline, even when he is talking to me. What
is wrong? ===

There are several possibilities. If you have not received any messages from the 
buddy:
# Your buddy has you blocked. This will prevent your buddy from seeing you online, and
will prevent you from seeing your buddy online. Neither of you will be able to send
messages to each other or retrieve each other's profile. You can check for this by using
the <code>/info buddyname</code> command from two accounts at the same time. If one
<code>/info buddyname</code> fails while the other succeeds, it is likely your contact has
blocked the account where <code>/info</code> fails.
# You have your buddy blocked. Blocking has the same effects regardless of which user is
doing the blocking. You can check to see if you have blocked the buddy by checking
<code>/ignore</code> (which provides a list).
# Your buddy has ''privacy mode'' enabled and has not added you to the ''allow list''.
Privacy mode makes it so only people on a special ''allow list'' can communicate with the
user, and all other users are treated as if they are blocked (as with 1. or 2.). Many
clients use their buddy list as the allow list. You can tell this is happening if you are
able to <code>/info buddyname</code> from one account but not from any others.

If you have or have not received messages from the buddy in question, it may be one of the
following:
# You have exceeded the maximum number of buddies for your account. At the time of
writing, AOL's Instant Messenger servers limit each account to 200 simultaneous buddies.
The protocol does not declare this limit and the server does not emit an error message if
you go over it; your buddy tracking simply starts behaving erratically. You can check for
this by using the <code>/names</code> command and manually counting entries.
# Your buddy is using the ''invisible'' feature of AOL Instant Messenger. This feature is
similar to the privacy feature mentioned in 3., but only blocks tracking information.
Userinfo requests and private messages can still be sent between clients. Unfortunately,
this clashes with naim's automatic message queueing feature, and causes the unfortunate
side effect of not being able to send messages to invisible users. You can tell this is
happening if you have less than 200 buddies, a user is showing up as ''offline'', but the
user is also able to send you messages (and you are unable to reply).
# The AIM service is experiencing technical difficulties and your session has become
unstable. This happens from time to time, and breaks naim's session tracking ability in
the same way as the invisible feature. You can not usually confirm or rule out this
possibility.

== Connections ==

=== I read somewhere naim is an IRC client as well, is this true? Will it allow me to be
on IRC and AIM simultaneously? ===

Is there a way to juggle two open connections? I noticed that if I have an AIM/TOC
connection open, and then open an IRC connection, then I can't switch to any of the
windows of the old connection with the normal keys (Tab, Home, and End).

naim supports the TOC1 (AIM and ICQ), IRC (EFnet and Undernet), and SLCP (The
lily CMC) protocols. naim also supports multiple simultaneous connections,
allowing you to have as many open connections as your system supports.

For example, type <code>/newconn Undernet IRC</code> to create a separate connection window
for IRC called "Undernet", then <code>/connect nickname us.undernet.org</code> to connect.

Use the Ins and Del keys to switch between connections. Your current connection
will appear on the right side of the status bar next to the amount of time you
have been connected. Active windows will show up regardless of which connection
window you are in, and Ctrl-N will cross connections to jump to the next active
window.


=== Does naim support connecting to AIM through a proxy server? ===

naim does not have specific proxy support, but all is not lost! The ProxyChains
utility "allows you to use SSH, TELNET, VNC, FTP and any other Internet
application from behind HTTP(HTTPS) and SOCKS(4/5) proxy servers. This
'proxifier' provides proxy server support to any app." As of this writing,
ProxyChains is available from http://proxychains.sf.net/.


=== Do you happen to know of any Yahoo!, MSN Messenger, etc. clients similar to naim? ===

naim already supports IRC (http://www.irchelp.org/), and work is underway at
adding Yahoo! and MSN Messenger support. Please contact me if you are anxiously
waiting for these, or any other protocols, so our available energies can be
directed where they are most desired.



== Logging ==

=== How does logging work in naim? Does it support per connection, or per buddy logging? ===

To enable session logging for connection AIM, type <code>/set AIM:logfile aim.log</code>
and then <code>/set AIM:log 1</code>.

naim also includes support for per-window logging, which is always enabled. naim
will log all window activity into a ~/.naimlog/<conn>/<name>.html file by
default. For example, any messages you exchange with "naim help" will be logged
to ~/.naimlog/AIM/naimhelp.html .

To turn off per-window logging, type <code>/set logdir "/dev/null"</code> and then
<code>/save</code>.

== IRC ==

=== How do I keep from manually logging into all of my servers and channels everytime I
login? ===

Using the <code>/save</code> command after you've logged into all of your servers and
channels will save those settings, and automatically log back into them the next time you
sign on. If you have registered names which require passwords, naim will prompt you for
them when logging back in.


=== What commands can I use in a naim IRC connection? ===

naim implements many common IRC commands.  Here are a few:
# <code>/join <channel></code> - joins a channel
# <code>/part <channel></code> - parts a channel
# <code>/accept <filename></code> - accepts a file transfer
# <code>/CTCP <nick></code> - requests another user's version information.
# <code>/whois <nick></code> - requests another user's whois information


=== Can I set modes in IRC? ===

naim supports several basic channel-operator commands, including <code>/op</code>,
<code>/deop</code>,
<code>/kick</code>, and <code>/topic</code>, but is not intended to be used as a channel
maintenance
client (a task usually better left handled by "IRC bots," which usually will not
ban their friends after getting into arguments with them).


=== Can I at least send a raw command to the IRC server? ===

Send a private message to the special target ":RAW", i.e.
<code>/msg :RAW MODE #channel +s</code>
Note that you will not be able to see the side-effects of most :RAW commands
unless you <code>/set showraw 1</code> first.


=== Where can I find naim help on IRC? ===

The official naim channel is #naim on the EFnet IRC Network. This is the default location
you enter if you start naim as <code>nirc</code> on the command line, or create a new IRC
connection and /connect without specifying a server.


== Keyboard Input ==

=== Is there any way to get naim to not automatically escape the ampersand? &amp;bull; Can
I insert newlines into my messages? ===

naim includes a ''paste mode'' which changes naim's escaping behavior. In normal input
mode, the keys &amp;lt; &amp;gt; &amp;amp; are all translated to &amp;amp;lt; &amp;amp;gt;
&amp;amp;amp;. When in paste mode, &amp;lt; &amp;gt; &amp;amp; are left alone, but
multiple spaces are converted to &amp;amp;nbsp; and the Enter key becomes
&amp;lt;br&amp;gt;. To toggle paste mode press <code>Ctrl-P</code>.

== Console Display Issues ==

My Linux console displays + and | instead of the line-drawing characters in the window
list window. How do I fix this?
My Linux console displays bold text as regular text. How do I fix this?
My Linux console does not display line-drawing characters at all, leaving holes on my
screen. How do I fix this?
The window list window appears distorted on my screen, and does not slide off cleanly. How
do I fix this?

This is a deficiency in the Linux kernel's console driver related to UTF-8
(internationalization) support. If you are using Red Hat Linux 8.0 or newer, or
Fedora Core, or any other distribution based on either of these, you need to
disable UTF-8 in your console session. Open /etc/sysconfig/i18n and remove the
".UTF-8" suffix in the LANG setting and comment out the SYSFONT line entirely.
Reboot your system. If you live outside of the U.S., I am sorry; you can either 
have pretty text or internationalization support. Please lodge your complaint 
with the Linux kernel maintainers; I have no control over this.

=== Configuring Mac OSX Terminal to Work with naim ===

The Mac OSX terminal does not play nice with naim by default. For example, PgUp and PgDown
scroll the terminal window instead of scrolling the current window in naim. This is easy
to fix:

'''Terminal > Window Settings > Keyboard'''

For each of the following keys, click edit and change the action to "send string to
shell:". Then enter the appropriate sequence for each:

'''\033[4~'''&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;(end)

'''\033[1~'''&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;(home)

'''\033[5~'''&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;(page up)

'''\033[6~'''&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;(page down)

Keep in mind when you type the backslash ("\"), OSX will automatically change it to a
double backslash ("\\"). You need to leave the double backslash while you're typing the
rest of the control sequence. When you're done typing the control sequence it will look
like this: '''\\033[4~''' 

Before you click OK you need to use the arrow keys on your keyboard, and then the delete
key, to remove one of the backslashes. Before clicking OK, the control sequence should
look like this: '''\033[4~'''


This was tested on Mac OSX 10.4, but should work on other versions as well.

== Support ==

=== I think I've found a bug, what do I do? ===

First, check the BUGS file that is distributed with naim. If you see the bug
listed and marked with a high priority, keep a look out for new versions at the
distribution site, or through your package maintainer.

If your bug is marked low priority, then evaluate whether it is of high or low
priority to you. If you feel this is a significant issue, go ahead and send me
an email asking me to get a move on the fix. If it's just a minor inconvenience,
the fact that it is in BUGS means I am aware of it already, so you won't need to
bring it to my attention.

If it is not in the BUGS file at all, contact the appropriate maintainer (which
may be me) to let them know, and carbon copy the message to me so I can keep
track of its resolution progress.


=== How do I figure out who to contact for issues regarding naim? ===

The README file should contain the most up-to-date contact information for the
people responsible for naim (including the maintainers of various package
distributions, for FreeBSD, Debian, etc.).



If you have any questions or concerns regarding naim, feel free to contact me at
Daniel Reed <n@ml.org> directly.

If you are interested in the development of naim, feel free to subscribe to the
naim-users mailing list, which I use to propose/discuss significant changes, and
answer common problems. Simply send a blank email to
<naim-users-subscribe@n.ml.org>, then reply to the confirmation message you will
receive.

If you would like to stay up-to-date with new releases, or critical updates,
feel free to subscribe to the moderated naim-announce mailing list. Simply send
a blank email to <naim-announce-subscribe@n.ml.org>, then reply to the
confirmation message you will receive.



=== Where can I download naim from? ===

	http://naim.n.ml.org/