== Notices ==

'''Please read [Latest Issues] before asking for help with naim'''

The current release of naim is 0.11.8.2.1.
(http://naim.googlecode.com/files/naim-0.11.8.2.1.tar.bz2)

The latest dev versions of naim now have built-in support for Lua (see http://www.lua.org
for info on what Lua is).  For more info on how Lua applies to naim, check out the [Lua]
page, or visit #naim on EFnet.

If you're having trouble finding a link to download NAIM here, check http://naim.n.ml.org.

This main page (and a few others) are now protected to prevent them from being spammed. 
If you want to make a change to a protected page, join #naim on EFnet and let n, Eminence
or m4x know.

== Welcome to naimdoc.net! ==

The purpose of this site will be to maintain a comprehensive set of documents for naim.

Feel free to add whatever pages you see necessary, or edit any of the current ones.

New users may find the [FAQ] or the [Quick Start] guide to be helpful, while advanced
users may find [Key Binding] and [Settings and Preferences] to be more interesting.
There is also a list of [Commands]. We also maintain a collection of interesting
naim-related [links].

[Lost screennames] - Screennames suspended by AOL for unknown reason that used naim. To
be sent to an AOL Rep for possible action / investigation.

=== Fun Stuff ===
[IRC quotes]

http://www.frappr.com/naim

== What is naim? ==

naim is a console client for AOL Instant Messenger (AIM), AOL I Seek You (ICQ), Internet
Relay Chat (IRC), and The lily CMC. The main developer is Daniel Reed. (Unofficial but
very useful patches by Joshua Wise)

*naim includes unique features like zero-configuration peer to peer
&quot;encryption&quot;, automatic message queueing, and incoming message modification (to
correct common spelling mistakes and expand common abbreviations; see /help filter).
*naim also includes powerful dynamic module support, allowing developers to modify all
major aspects of naim's behavior.
**Third-party plug-ins have been used to extend naim's functionality for use in embedded
monitoring clients, and for use as host to automatic clients (&quot;bots&quot;).
**The naim-modules package (distributed below) includes several example plug-ins,
including a telnet server (nsocket), an interactive bot (naimusers), and a simple
anti-spam measure (nantispam). 
*When combined with GNU Screen (http://site.n.ml.org/info/screen/), naim is great to use
as a chat client as well as an answering machine. Individual users can detach, log out,
pack up and go home, then log back in from anywhere on the Internet to resume their naim
session. 

naim is maintained by an OPEN, DIRECTED COMMUNITY, and has been in development since
October, 1998.

*a total revamp of naim called &quot;naimng&quot; is currently under development for
the next naim release. It will make liberal use of DBUS, and seperate the naim user
interface from the core program, allowing the development of multiple interfaces to suit
users needs(GUI, web, curses), as opposed to just the current ncurses interface.