#summary Some notes on using naim's SVN/SC repository.
#labels Phase-Implementation

= Introduction =

I'm going to keep a running log here of what I'm doing as I set up naim's SC repository in the hopes that other people will find it useful for fixing it if it breaks.

= Other documentation on SC =
http://pmade.com/open-source-software/sc/manual

= Setting up for the first time =
== Setting up my environment ==
I use an Ubuntu system. YMMV. Ubuntu is totally brain damaged when it comes to Ruby, I hear, so it's probably less work for you.

{{{
joshua@shebang:~/src/naim$ sudo apt-get install ruby
blah blah blah
The following NEW packages will be installed:
  libruby1.8 ruby ruby1.8
0 upgraded, 3 newly installed, 0 to remove and 70 not upgraded.
Need to get 1661kB of archives.
After unpacking 6099kB of additional disk space will be used.
Do you want to continue [Y/n]?
blah blah blah
joshua@shebang:~/src/naim$
joshua@shebang:~/tmp$ wget http://rubyforge.org/frs/download.php/11289/rubygems-0.9.0.tgz
[...]
joshua@shebang:~/tmp$ tar xzvf rubygems-0.9.0.tgz
[...]
joshua@shebang:~/tmp/rubygems-0.9.0$ sudo ruby setup.rb all
[...]
  Successfully built RubyGem
  Name: sources
  Version: 0.0.1
  File: sources-0.0.1.gem
joshua@shebang:~/tmp/rubygems-0.9.0$ sudo apt-get install rdoc
[...]
joshua@shebang:~/tmp/rubygems-0.9.0$ sudo gem install svnauto --include-dependencies
[...]
Successfully installed svnauto-1.0.2
}}}

== Setting up sc ==
{{{
joshua@shebang:~/src/naim$ sc config --color
joshua@shebang:~/src/naim$ sc config -a
Repository Name (used with sc -r): naim
Repository URL: https://joshua.wise@naim.googlecode.com/
Directory where checkouts go (can be relative to ~/): |develop/naim| src/naim/sc/
Create workspace /home/joshua/src/naim/sc/? y
joshua@shebang:~/src/naim$ cd sc
joshua@shebang:~/src/naim/sc$ sc -p svn checkout
Repositories:
1. naim (https://joshua.wise@naim.googlecode.com/)
Please choose a repository: 1
A    /home/joshua/src/naim/sc/svn-trunk/lua
A    /home/joshua/src/naim/sc/svn-trunk/lua/commands.c
A    /home/joshua/src/naim/sc/svn-trunk/lua/Makefile.in
blah blah blah
A    /home/joshua/src/naim/sc/svn-trunk/NEWS
A    /home/joshua/src/naim/sc/svn-trunk/aclocal.m4
A    /home/joshua/src/naim/sc/svn-trunk/install-sh
Checked out revision 146.
Checked out to: ~/src/naim/sc/svn-trunk
joshua@shebang:~/src/naim/sc$
}}}
At this point, you will have a copy of the naim svn trunk hanging out in your home directory, in src/naim/sc/svn-trunk.

You'll note, if you're observant, that I checked out a project called 'svn'. This is to preserve compatibility with the way Google Code has things laid out. The trunk is directly under a directory called 'svn' on the server, not in a subdirectory. So, we call the root directory the workspace, and we call the project name 'svn'. This is an evil nasty hack, but it works.

We have to pass in the project name with '-p svn', because SC can't automatically detect a list of extant projects because https://naim.googlecode.com/ is not actually a Subversion repository.